### Welcome!

This is a simple full-stack application that I designed to summarize historical trends in CO2 emissions by state. 

The architecture is pretty simple.

React front end, 
FastAPI back end, 
AWS Bedrock using Claude, 
EIA API as a data source


# Front end:
A simple interface with dropdowns for state, fuel type, and economic sector (and also a "tone" text box for having a little fun with the AI)

## Workflow:
1. Use the dropdowns to choose a state, fuel type, and economic sector. 
    - If you want, you can also enter a tone in the text box such as "like Hank Hill" (optional)
2. Press Submit to send a request to the back end
3. When the request is returned, it just updates the DOM with the text generated by AI

## Considerations and improvements for the front end:
If this was a full-fledged app, I would want the interface to be much more polished, ideally with interactive visualizations. I played around with some of the text-to-image capabilities of Bedrock's Foundation Models and found that none of them generated anything even close to a readable graph out of the box. It was kind of hilarious, but not at all useful. Since the point was to work with Generative AI and not an existing visualization library, I decided to abandon this idea for now and focus on data.

I would also want to have an option to display a table of the full data retrieved from EIA so that the user could directly observe the trends that Claude summarizes.

It could use more than a little aesthetic pizzazz as well. It's pretty ugly.


# Back end:
A simple FastAPI back end with just one endpoint

## Workflow
1. When the request is received, it starts by retrieving historical data from EIA's API
2. It then populates a prompt template and submits the prompt to Claude via AWS Bedrock
3. Claude's response gets returned to the front end to be displayed

## Considerations and improvements for the back end:
As it stands, the app is pretty slow. There are a few things we could do about that:

Give the user more control over the time period they want to analyze. Right now it always looks at all the historical data that's available. Since there's only so much data in the first place, that seemed to me like a more interesting option than limiting it to a few years, but as it turns out, it takes Claude a long time to analyze 50 years of data
Store the CO2 emission data somewhere rather than pinging EIA every time. Since it's historical data, it will never change anyway, so we might as well just have it in a DB or some other storage


# Considerations and improvements for the app in general
The app is lacking in some of the guardrails I would expect for a full-stack app, such as handling invalid input on the back end and gracefully handling some kinds of errors. 

Unit and integration tests would be useful, especially on the front end

Sensitive data like API keys should be stored somewhere safe, such as a key vault


# How to run it:

You will need:

- Python 3.8+
- Node.js + npm (v18+ recommended)
- AWS credentials with Bedrock access
- An active EIA API key

## Running the back end
Create a .env file in the directory backend/app/

It should have these contents

EIA_API_KEY=[your_eia_api_key_here]
AWS_REGION=[your_aws_region]


Run these commands on the cli

aws configure
    - follow the prompts to set up your credentials if you haven't already
cd backend
pip install -r requirements.txt
cd app
uvicorn main:app --reload

This should spin up your back-end server. You may need to pip install some dependencies

## Running the front end
Run these commands 

cd frontend/woods-mackenzie-frontend
npm install
npm start

There should now be a front-end server running. You can now visit http://localhost:3000/ in your browser

I also left the readme that came with the React scaffold I'm using, which has more info on the frontend server